# CDS6344-Assigment
The project utilized an Amazon Apple iPhone reviews dataset that was acquired from Kaggle. The goal is to extract insights into customer sentiment, especially towards what is making the product loved and hated. The steps involved in this project are data cleaning and preprocessing where the dataset was processed to remove missing values and irrelevant columns, as well as feature engineering. Subsequently, the texts were processed so that they are suitable for model input which involves lowercasing, punctuation and special character removal, tokenization, stopword removal, stemming, and rejoining of tokens. Next, the text was converted into numerical format and split into training and testing sets. 
The core of the sentiment analysis used two main approaches such as traditional machine learning models (Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine and Random Forest) and Transformers (DistilBERT) where both of these models were fine-tuned for sentiment classification. In addition to overall sentiment, Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA) was employed to measure the sentiment towards aspects or attributes of the iPhone to provide more granular and actionable insights. Moreover, model performance was assessed using k-fold cross-validation to make sure that the model performed best without bias. Finally, an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) will be performed to explore the results, communicate findings, identify trends in customer sentiment, and examine relationships between sentiments and specific iPhone features or variants.

- !! For the pip install command, make sure to install once and restart only once !!
